Depending on your database type, monitoring won't always take the form
of looking at CPU utilization and disk I/O. For example, managed
serverless databases like DynamoDB provide performance in terms of read
request units and write request units.
You can choose to use an on‑demand mode where Dynamo will automatically
scale up and down to match your load or provisioned mode where you
specify a certain read and write unit capacity.
There are cost and performance differences between the two options,
so you'll have to determine which option is best for you based
on your application requirements and budget.
For services like RDS, Redshift, and ElastiCache,
you'll be looking for spikes in resources to determine if a
certain resource is being taxed such as CPU,
RAM or disk.
When using these instance‑based database services,
you'll need to be aware of errors such as full disk error if you run out of
storage, network errors such as running out of IP addresses in a subnet when
trying to launch new instances, database status messages,
including those that are nonrecoverable where you'll have to spin up a new
database instance to solve the problem, and native error messages that are
unique to the database engine you're using.
Finally, with all database types,
you may need to troubleshoot access problems such as timeouts,
missing certificates, and other credential problems that prevent applications or users from accessing the database.